Your YouTube videos won't make you money
if you are obsessing over retention and
likes and subscribers. And I know this
because I've helped over 700 businesses
make millions on YouTube. And this year
alone, my own channel pulled in over
$4.5 million. So, in this video, I'm
going to give you the five-step system
that I use in pretty much every video I
make that generates sales every time I
post one. All right. So, to understand
this system, you need to know how making
money on YouTube actually works.
Otherwise, it's not going to work for
you. And the best way to explain this is
I want you to imagine that you run a bar
and your job is to get everyone inside
to drink Johnny Walker's cheapest
whiskey all night. Now, it doesn't sound
that hard, right? But the thing you're
going to quickly realize is there are
two types of drinkers. The first are a
very small group of whiskey fanatics.
So, if you pour them a Johnny and Coke,
they look at you like you've spat in
their mother's face because they've had
that basic whiskey a thousand times
before and they think it's lame. And
these people actually came to your bar
hoping for something more unique with
real depth. And the moment you don't
give them that, they leave. And then the
second type of drinker, these are the
complete opposite. They can drink
whiskey cokes all night, but if you gave
them a neat 100-year-old single malt,
they would take one sip and they would
pull the face of someone who's eaten a
bowl of bees because it would be too
strong and it would overwhelm them. So,
they'd spit it out. And that's why
trying to make videos that get lots of
views and then lots of sales at the same
time doesn't really work. Because if you
want views, you have to make more
watered down content that the wider
market here can consume without getting
overwhelmed. But the thing is that
watered down experience repels your
buyers because they like the whiskey
fanatics want something much deeper. The
more serious viewers here are also at
the stage where they're ready to pay
someone to help them. Okay, so now I'm
going to give you my five-step system
for making videos that generate sales
every time you post one. And then after
I'm going to show you how to make videos
that get views and sales because it is
still possible. All right, so step one
of this system works like this. If I
want to make sales, I do not make a
listical, I do not make an interview
video or I do not make a news style
update. The style of video is very good
for views, but it's often terrible for
sales. So instead, I choose one of four
other video styles to then design my
entire video around that are proven to
convert buyers. So the first type, you
see this on channels all of the time,
and they often have hardly any views at
all. And they're a story about how you
help someone get a result your buyers
want, and they're called case studies.
So this video here, this is a case study
about how I helped my editor, Greg, go
from 0 to $20,000 a month in 4 weeks.
And that generated $50,000 in four weeks
for my business, which is astonishing.
Now, your whiskey drinker viewers, they
love this because if they've been
thinking about working with you, this is
kind of the proof that can get them over
the line. The second style is where you
give the whiskey drinkers the exact
steps to take for the outcome they
really care about. Now, these are videos
that are usually 20 minutes or longer,
and they are packed with value and
frameworks and stories. I call them deep
dives. And this one deep dive here
generated $300,000 in 9 months. Now, the
reason whiskey drinkers love these is
because they prove you are an expert
with systems and processes in place that
could help them get a result, not
someone repeating a generic blog post
online with no credibility. So, they
blow up your trust. And then we have the
third style you can pick from. Now, this
is also amazing for sales because your
buyers have basically heard the same
advice delivered the same way a thousand
times. So, here you make a video where
you coach a viewer to help them solve a
problem. I call this a roast. is kind of
a review, but a roast gives buyers a
taste of what it's like to work with you
kind of behind the scenes. And if they
like that taste, they buy. So, this one
roast video I made generated over
$100,000 in the last few months. And
then the fourth option, I'm a big fan of
this style. They're pretty easy to make
and you are watching one right now.
They're what I call a short process
video and all you do is lay out a
five-step process people can follow to
get a result they want. And some of my
best short process videos have generated
over $100,000 in the last 12 months.
Now, your whiskey drinkers, they like
these because it gives them a very quick
fix to a specific problem. So, step one,
all you do before you make your video is
you work out the style of video you're
going to produce because the data is
overwhelmingly clear. Some styles of
videos are more mass market friendly and
get you views and some formats buyers
love and get sales. So, you want to pick
the right type for the job. And then
once you've chosen the right video
style, you move on to step two, which is
all about using the right title to
attract the right viewer. Now, to make
this simple, what I want you to do is
think of your audience as moving through
a funnel where people discover you at
the top, then they watch your videos,
then they move deeper down it, and when
they get to the bottom, it means they
have made a purchase. And this funnel is
kind of split into two halves. The top
half is full of viewers that are known
as problem aware. They basically know
something is wrong in their life, but
they don't really know the solution to
get rid of that thing. So, they click on
problem aare titles that talk about the
results they want or the pain that they
know they have. So, for example, 11
income streams that made me 200K, how I
boosted my metabolism and lost 30 lbs.
So, these sort of titles, they are
optimized so they can get lots of views
because a lot of people will recognize
those problems and results the second
they see them. Then once someone has
researched their problem and they've
watched a few videos and they've tried a
few things on their own and they become
more invested, they then move deeper
down this funnel and become what's known
as solution aware. So these viewers now
click on content that promises the exact
fix they think they need. So for
example, this video is about breaking
generational curses and this video is on
a tutorial for green screen lighting.
They're solution aware titles because
you're only going to click on them if
you understand why you need that
solution. Now, the thing about people in
the solution aware area of the funnel is
they're much closer to buying. So, the
basic rule here is if you want views,
use problem aware titles cuz simply just
more people understand the value of
them. And if you want sales, use
solution aware titles because these
people are way more invested and closer
to buying. The thing is there is
something that makes this a little bit
more complex. So let's go one level
deeper. What you will find is sometimes
solutionaware videos can get huge
amounts of views like this video from
Nero knowledge. So not that many people
are going to understand what that title
means but clearly there was a big enough
demand for it. So what you have to do is
you have to test both types of titles
and then look at which ones are bringing
you views and which ones are bringing
you buyers. And you might get lucky and
find that one of them does both. You
then move on to step three, which kind
of builds on what we've just learned,
but this time we apply similar thinking
to the content itself. So, most
businesses make videos that can't
generate sales because they try to solve
the broadest, the most obvious problem,
the ones that Johnny and Coke drinkers
really care about. So, when the serious
buyers click on their video about weight
loss and they get told point number one
is to exercise and eat less, they're
like, "Yeah, we know that. Duh." because
they've already studied the topics and
they've tried all the basics. So,
generic problems really turn them off.
So, instead, what you do is this. So,
this video here got 15,000 views, but it
generated $60,000 in sales because the
very first problem I called out was
something only a buyer would recognize.
Now, just to fill you in on what it was,
the problem I discussed was known as
warm audience depletion. And you only
really ever experience that after you've
launched a product and you made a huge
amount of money and then a few months
later you're almost back to zero and
you're left going, "Hey on a sec, what's
going on?" So the moment the Jack and
Coke viewers hear that, which is the
mass market, they leave and my retention
takes a hit. But the whiskey drinker
buyers, they are hooked because suddenly
they get hit with the exact problem they
have that they've probably been worrying
about for ages. And then I explained it
to them. And what was insane was when I
posted that video, pretty much everyone
who came in was saying, "Ed, I'm so glad
you made that. I didn't realize that was
the problem. I've been stuck on it for
ages." So that's the power of calling
out buyers specific problems in your
content. So the rule for step three is
if you want serious buyers, you have to
call out the specific problems buyers
are trying to solve but can't. And then
step four of this system is where most
businesses completely mess up. It kind
of destroys all of the work we did in
steps one to two. And that's mainly
because a lot of people hear that your
potential buyers, they want depth in a
video. And that makes them think, "Ah,
cool. Let me just dump everything I know
into one video." But that doesn't work
because whiskey drinkers, they don't
want to walk into a bar and down 2 L of
the stuff. It would completely wipe them
out. And the same happens with your
audience. If you hit them with too much
information too fast, without any
structure, potential buyers get
incredibly overwhelmed. And when you do
that, your credibility then drops and
they are less likely to trust you and to
want to work with you. So the real job
of step four isn't to cram in every
detail. You know, it's to work out
what's the right amount of information
to include in a video. So that by the
end, the viewers sitting there thinking,
"Wow, this is actually so much simpler
than I thought. I think I can do this."
And when you get that reaction, you
inspire them. And an inspired viewer
becomes a buyer. A confused viewer does
not. Which moves us on to step five of
the system and the part that can wreck
your entire video and it can make you
look like a dog because most people
think they have to beg viewers to buy
their thing with some sort of dramatic
pitch in their video. So they suddenly
switch tone and start selling and then
they break all of the trust they've
built with the viewer. But if you've
done steps one to four properly, you
don't need to pitch. The buyers will be
so inspired, they'll sell themselves.
Their natural next step is to go, how do
I work with them? So, you just put your
link under your video to your offer with
a simple call to action. And so long as
your content is rocking, that will
happen. All right. So, now let's just
address the elephant in the room. Does
this mean you have to sacrifice your
channel growth to make sales? Well, no.
You can actually have both still, but
there's a certain way of doing it. So,
here's how I structure my channel to get
both views and sales. So, all I do is
this. Some videos I optimize for buyers
and I only really track the business
metrics they generate like clicks,
emails, calls, sales, and leads. Like
this video right here is about email
marketing. And I know most people just
do not care about email. They don't want
to do it. They don't even like it. So,
it's going to put off a ton of people.
But I know that my best clients want
that. And that video generated a huge
amount of sales as a result. And then I
have some videos that I optimize for
views, meaning I don't really care about
the business metrics as much. I just
want new people to find it. So this one
here, for example, it was just 40 short
lessons. The video is problem aare. The
advice is really simple. It never really
goes into too much depth. It's very
fastpac. It's a dopamine creating video.
So it's just one quick lesson after the
next after the next. So it works in the
same way as keeping people hooked on a
short form platform. And it's very easy
to watch. so it gets more views. And
then this one, I wanted more views. So I
just made a contrarian video. And I knew
that if I had a strong opinion about
something, people would probably talk
about it and comment and share. And it
worked. James Smith, he made a response
about it. And then that drove more
people to the video. And then there was
people on Instagram cutting it up and
arguing with me, which then drove more
people to my channel as well. So for
every video, I ask myself one question.
Do I want views or do I want sales? If
my channel's growth stalling, I might
just go, "Right, let's focus on views
for a bit." If you want more clients, I
might just focus on sales. For new
channels, just make one in three of your
videos a buyer video because you've got
to focus more on views. For established
channels, you can go 50/50. But in 2025,
I actually went 75% buyer content, 25%
viewer content, and the channel still
grew quite a lot, and the business
exploded. The thing is, if your overall
channel strategy is wrong, then you
can't get either of these things to
work. So, watch this video next, and I'm
going to show you how to set up a
channel so it stands a chance of
generating sales and views over the long
term. The question is, though, is that
video I've just pointed you to optimized
for views or buyers? Why don't you go
check it out? See if you can work it